Sometimes just getting to talk to people can be a challenge.
To overcome this obstacle, we need to be flexible.
Takanori and Yumi Takahashi have served in territories that are as different as night and day.
Recently, they visited our studio.
Listen as they tell us how they have learned to meet the challenges of bearing thorough witness.
Takanori and Yumi, welcome to our studio.
Thank you for inviting us.
And we're very happy to have you here.
Takanori, you and I go back a long way.
I still remember when you came into Japan Bethel back in 1977,
and we served in the same congregation for a number of years.
But then in 1990, you had a big change in your life.
Would you like to tell us what happened?
Yes.
My twin brother, Nobuwaki, was also serving at Bethel.
To our surprise, we were assigned to Papua New Guinea as missionaries.
That was a big change.
And here you are working in the rural territory of Papua New Guinea.
During your 25 years in Papua New Guinea, I understand that you served in the missionary field,
in the circuit work, and also at Bethel.
So Yumi, when did you come into the picture?
Takanori and I were married in September 1993,
and I joined him in the missionary work.
Adapting to remote territories such as this was a challenge.
So in order to bear thorough witness, what kind of challenges did you have to overcome?
The people of Papua New Guinea are very friendly.
They have a deep respect for the Bible.
It was easy to relax, speak to them face to face,
to read the scriptures together, and to read with them.
Those don't sound like challenges.
Did you face any obstacles?
When we preached in the villages, the response of the local people
often depended on the response of the village chief.
If he listened, almost the whole village listened.
But if his response was negative,
the people would walk away and hide in the bush.
So we would always show respect and approach the village chief first.
This often moved him to view our visit with favor.
Challenging the cities was mainly security.
It wasn't safe for us to go into some areas alone or to visit homes regularly.
So we would ask our Bible students to come to the Kingdom Hall for their study before the meeting.
That was a good way to encourage them to attend meetings.
Well, it's obvious that you enjoyed your service in Papua New Guinea.
But now you're serving as special pioneers in the Myhama congregation,
just 20 minutes from downtown Tokyo.
So you went from a territory where people have deep respect for the Bible
to a land where less than 1% of the people claim to be Christian.
So what other kind of differences did you find between your territory in Japan now and your missionary territory?
Oh, it's very different.
Tokyo Disneyland is in a territory.
And 70% of homes are in high security apartment buildings.
We have to stand in the lobby, in front of the door, press a button and speak to our camera.
Coming from Papua New Guinea, we found it challenging to work this territory.
We were used to friendly discussions face to face.
Now we see only the lens of a camera.
But we have learned to view the camera as our friend.
I think most of us find it challenging to speak to a camera.
So how do you overcome this challenge?
We know that as soon as we push the button, our face shows up on the screen inside of the apartment.
We stand on arm lengths from the camera so that our face is framed nicely.
And we adjust our volume accordingly, taking into consideration the Doha Man and the others who may be listening.
We say our greeting about two seconds after we push the button.
Just when we know that they are looking at the monitor.
Our friendly greeting and warm smile makes them feel like we can actually see their face.
We prepare a specific appealing introduction and show them respect and conservation.
The people in our territory like to be viewed as successful, not as people who have problems.
So we try to focus on positive subjects.
We prepare a variety of subjects so that they don't hear the same message over and over.
Like many people, Japanese do not like to be put on a spot.
So instead of asking a question and waiting for them to answer,
we use the teaching method of our trucks and give three possible answers for them to choose from.
Well, have you had positive results from this income preaching?
Since we started to use this method, the number of note homes has decreased.
And also, when we meet people on the street, sometimes they say they know us because they saw us on their intercom.
That was excellent!
And thank you Takanori and Yumi for sharing with us how you have met the challenge of bearing thorough witness in a variety of territories.